It is right indeed 
we should magnify the one who grants life, 
you, that stretched your hands wide upon the Cross, 
broke and smashed the might and power of the foe.

It is right indeed 
you to magnify, who fashion all things, 
your pains from corruption deliver us, 
and your Passion grants dispassion to our souls. 


All Earth quaked in fear 
and the sun concealed itself, O Saviour, 
when, O Christ, our light, you set bodily, 
as the light that knows no evening was entombed. 


Sleeping in the tomb 
with the sleep that breathes forth life, Anointed, 
from sin's heavy sleep you, as God, aroused 
all the human race that sin had held enthralled. 


"Of all woman-kind 
I alone bore you, my child, without pain; 
cruel pangs now wrack me as I behold 
your great suffering", the Holy Virgin cries. 


Seeing you on high, 
never separated from the Father, 
yet below on Earth, laid out as a corpse,
the dread Seraphim, my Saviour, shake with fear. 



See, the Temple Veil,
rent asunder at your crucifixion, 
Heaven's beacons hide, O my Christ, their light, 
to see you, the Sun, now hid beneath the earth. 


He who at the start 
by His will alone set Earth revolving, 
lifeless as a mortal sets under earth; 
let the sky now shake and tremble at the sight. 


Human-kind you formed, 
with your own hand fashioned us, O Saviour, 
now, O Sun, you set underneath the earth, 
raising companies of mortals from the fall. 


Come, now, let us sing, 
let our sacred hymn lament the dead Christ, 
singing as the Myrrh-bearing women did, 
that with them we too may hear the word "rejoice!" 


Truly you are Myrrh, 
truly, Word of God, the Myrrh Unfailing, 
so it was myrrh-bearers brought myrrh to you, 
to the Living God brought myrrh as to the dead. 


Buried, O my Christ, 
the great palaces of Hell you shattered, 
Death you put to death by your death, O Lord, 
from corruption you set free those born of earth. 



To the grave descends 
he, the Wisdom of our God, that pours out 
streams of life; descending into a tomb, 
giving life to those in Hades deepest depths. 


"Willingly by death 
I was wounded in the flesh, dear Mother, 
thus the broken nature of mortal kind 
to renew, so do not beat your breast in grief." 


When beneath the Earth 
you had set, the Morning Star of justice, 
you aroused the dead as if they but slept, 
as you put to flight the murk and gloom of Hell. 


Sown with tears today, 
the life-breathing grain of two-fold nature, 
here within earth's furrows the grain is sown, 
but tomorrow it will burst once more to life. 


Trembling, Adam quailed, 
when God walked in Paradise, he feared him, 
but rejoices now as God enters Hell. 
As of old he fell, so now he rises up. 


Offerings of tears, 
O my Christ, your Mother poured out, weeping, 
as in flesh you lay buried in the grave, 
"But arise, my Son, as you foretold", she cried. 



Filled with godly fear, 
in a new tomb noble Joseph hides 
you, singing, Saviour, hymns for your burial, 
hymns befitting God and mingled with laments. 


Bolts of bitter grief 
pierced you Mother's soul, and nails of anguish, 
when she saw you nailed to a Tree, O Word, 
saw you fastened to the Cross with cruel nails. 


When her eyes beheld 
you who are the whole world's sweetness, 
drinking, O my Saviour, the bitter drink, 
your sweet Mother drenched her eyes with bitter tears. 


"Dreadful is the wound, 
all my inward parts are rent asunder, 
as your unjust slaughter I see, O Word", 
cried the Virgin most afflicted as she wept.


"Tell me, Word of God, 
how am I to close you lips and sweet eyes,
how to bury you as befits the dead?" 
cried the noble Joseph, shivering with fear. 

 
Sacred hymns they sing, 
Nicodemus and the noble Joseph, 
while the Seraphim join them in their hymn 
for the burial of Christ, who now lies dead. 



Sun of justice, now 
you have set beneath the earth, my Saviour 
Therefore she, the Moon that gave birth to you, 
is eclipsed with grief, at seeing you no more. 


Hades trembled then, 
when he saw you, the Life-giving Saviour, 
in your might despoiling him of his wealth, 
raising up the dead he held from every age. 


Once the night has passed 
then again, O Word, the bright Sun blazes; 
radiant you blaze forth, when after death, 
as though from a bridal chamber, you arise. 

 
How Earth quaked with fear, 
O Creator, as into her bosom, 
shaking, she received you, my Saving Lord, 
by her fearful shaking she awoke the dead. 


With sweet myrrh, O Christ, 
Nicodemus and the noble Joseph 
laid you out for burial strange and new, 
as they cried aloud, "Now tremble, all the earth!" 


Maker of the light, 
you have set, and with you sets the sunlight; 
all creation, trembling and shuddering, 
now proclaims you as the Maker all things. 



Christ, our Cornerstone, 
Him a stone hewn from the rock now covers; 
Tremble Earth to see how a mortal man 
hides away our God as mortal in a tomb! 

 
"O my Child, behold 
the disciple whom you loved; my sweet one, 
see your Mother too, and grant us a word", 
cried the Virgin as she raised her sad lament. 

 
O, Life-giving Word, 
even stretched out on the Cross and nailed there, 
you, as Lord of Life, did not kill the Jews, 
granting resurrection even to their dead. 

 
Suffering, O Word, 
you were quite bereft of form and beauty; 
Rising, Lord, you shone forth resplendently, 
and with your Godhead's rays made mortals fair. 

 
In the flesh you set, 
‘neath the earth, Dawn Star that knows no evening, 
at height of noon-day the sun grew dark, 
as unable to endure the fearful sight. 

 
Sun and moon grew dark, 
they are images of faithful servants, 
who, as mourners, Saviour, attire themselves 
in the sombre mourners' robes of deepest black. 


 
"Though you hung there dead, 
the centurion knew you as true God. 
See, with fear I shake", noble Joseph cried, 
"Tell me, how am I to touch you with my hands?" 

 
Adam lay asleep, 
and, while sleeping, from his side brought forth death. 
You, O Word of God, who are sleeping here, 
now are pouring from your side life for the world. 

 
For a while you slept, 
to the dead who lay in Hell you brought life. 
Rising up, O Good One, you then raised up 
all the multitudes of dead from every age. 


Vine from which life flows! 
As above the earth, Lord, you were lifted, 
you poured forth the wine of salvation then, 
now I glorify your Passion and your Cross. 

 
Lords of Angel Hosts, 
when they saw you, O my Saviour, naked, 
blood-stained, and condemned, how did they endure 
to perceive your crucifiers' insolence? 


What perversity! 
Come, most crooked race of Hebrews, tell us, 
how could you condemn the Anointed One, 
when you knew the temple would be raised again. 


 
In a mocking cloak 
you have clothed the one who orders all things. 
He arrayed the Earth, and most wondrously, 
he it was who strewed the stars across the skies. 

 
Like the pelican, 
you gave life, O Word, to your dead children, 
wounded in your side, you let life-blood flow, 
letting fall life-giving drops of blood on all. 

 
Jesus stayed the sun, 
as of old he smote the foreign foe, Lord; 
you, Christ, hid its light as you overthrew 
that great prince, the Lord of darkness and of death. 

 
O Compassionate, 
while remaining in your Father's bosom, 
mortal nature willingly you assumed, 
and as mortal man, O Christ, went down to Hell. 


He who hung the earth 
on the waters, on a Cross is lifted, 
as a lifeless corpse he is laid in earth, 
which, unable to endure it, dreads and quakes. 


"Woe is me, my Son! 
For I hoped as king to see you reigning, 
whom I see condemned, hanging on the Cross," 
the pure Virgin Mother voices her lament. 



"Gabriel announced, 
in the wondrous message that he brought me, 
the eternal kingdom he said would be 
the possession of my Jesus, my dear Son". 


"Woe, alas for me! 
Now a prophecy has found fulfilment, 
As the just man Symeon had foretold, 
now, Emmanuel, your sword has pierced my heart." 


Are you not ashamed? 
Tell me, do not all those dead he raised up 
shame you, for the Giver of life is he, 
whom from spiteful envy, Jews, you did to death. 


Bitterly she wept, 
your all-blameless Mother, when she saw you 
lying dead, O Word, lying in the tomb, 
the eternal God no language can express. 


Seeing you, my Christ, 
you, the Light invisible, now hidden, 
lifeless in the grave, then the sun on high 
shook and trembled as its light grew dark in fear. 


When she saw your death 
then your Mother free from all defilement 
cried out, O my Christ, bitterly to you, 
"Life, I beg, do not delay among the dead!" 



Hades, death's dread lord, 
shook in fear, he shuddered when he saw you, 
Sun of glory, deathless and radiant, 
and he gave up all his prisoners in haste. 


Terrible indeed, 
great the sight that now is seen, O Saviour, 
He, the cause of life, willing went to death, 
wishing life to bring as gift to all mankind. 


Lord, your side was pierced, 
nails were hammered through your hands, O Saviour, 
from your side came healing to heal the wound, 
and to cure the greed of our first parents' hands. 


Once for Rachel's son 
house by house were all set sadly weeping. 
With his Mother now, the Disciples' choir 
in its grief mourns and laments the Virgin's Son. 


With their hands they gave 
a great blow upon the cheek of Jesus, 
Christ, who with his hand fashioned all mankind 
Christ, who with his hand has crushed the Beast's foul fangs. 


With our hymns, O Christ, 
all the faithful bring their adoration, 
to your crucifixion and burial; 
by your burial we have been freed from death.

Great eternal God, 
co-eternal Word and Holy Spirit, 
look down in your goodness on those who rule, 
grant their sceptres strength against the warlike foe. 

Wholly undefiled, 
Mother, who gave birth to life, pure Virgin, 
end all scandals which still beset Church, 
and as you are loving, Mother, grant her peace.

It is right indeed 
we should magnify the one who grants life, 
you, that stretched your hands wide upon the Cross, 
broke and smashed the might and power of the foe.
